README.md, before:

# AI Codex Web App

This repository hosts a minimal end-to-end “Codex-style” experience with:

- **Frontend**: React + Vite single-page app deployed to GitHub Pages.
- **Backend**: Node.js + TypeScript serverless API designed for Vercel.
- **Capabilities**: Uses OpenAI for code generation plus GitHub read/write access to list repositories, inspect files, generate change plans, and apply them by creating branches/commits (with optional PRs).

## Project Structure

```
backend/          # Vercel serverless functions (TypeScript)
  api/            # API endpoints
frontend/         # React + Vite frontend for GitHub Pages
.github/workflows # GitHub Actions for Pages deployment
```

## Backend (Vercel) Setup

1. Create a new Vercel project and point the **Root Directory** to `backend`.
2. Ensure "Framework Preset" is set to **Other** (functions only).
3. Add environment variables:
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY`: OpenAI API key (optional if users will provide their own via the UI).
   - `GITHUB_TOKEN`: Personal Access Token with `repo` scope (or swap to a GitHub App token later).
4. Deploy. The API endpoints will be exposed under `/api/*`.

### Local development

```bash
cd backend
npm install
npm run dev   # runs vercel dev
```

## Frontend (GitHub Pages) Setup

1. In repo settings, enable GitHub Pages to serve from the `gh-pages` branch.
2. On pushes to `main`, the provided workflow builds `frontend` and publishes `frontend/dist` to `gh-pages`.
3. Configure the frontend to talk to the backend by setting a repository secret used at build-time, e.g. add to the GitHub Actions environment:
   - `VITE_API_BASE_URL=https://<your-vercel-app>.vercel.app`

### Local development

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

## API Overview

- `POST /api/list-repos` — lists repositories accessible by the token.
- `POST /api/list-files` — lists files/directories at a given path and ref.
- `POST /api/generate-change` — fetches file contents and asks OpenAI to propose JSON-formatted changes + commit message.
- `POST /api/apply-change` — creates a branch, commits blobs/trees for the proposed changes, and optionally opens a PR.
- `GET/POST/DELETE /api/auth/openai-key` — check for, store, or remove an OpenAI API key for the current browser session via an HttpOnly cookie.

## Environment Variables

Backend (Vercel):
- `OPENAI_API_KEY`
- `GITHUB_TOKEN`

Frontend (build-time):
- `VITE_API_BASE_URL` — base URL of the deployed backend (e.g., `https://your-api.vercel.app`).

## Usage Flow

1. Choose a repository and base branch.
2. Browse/select files to use as context.
3. Log in to your OpenAI account, create an API key, and save it in the app so it can call OpenAI on your behalf.
4. Enter a prompt describing the desired change and generate a proposal.
5. Review the proposed file contents and commit message.
6. Apply the changes by creating a branch/commit and optionally a pull request.

## Notes

- The frontend never stores secrets; all secret usage is in the backend via environment variables.
- The backend is written to be swapped to a GitHub App token in the future without significant changes.
- The experience is designed to mirror Codex without app-level prompt caps (no hourly, weekly, or monthly limits beyond your own
  API quotas).

Commit message:

Add Ubuntu install script for CodeX

README.md, after:

# AI Codex Web App

This repository hosts a minimal end-to-end “Codex-style” experience with:

- **Frontend**: React + Vite single-page app deployed to GitHub Pages.
- **Backend**: Node.js + TypeScript serverless API designed for Vercel.
- **Capabilities**: Uses OpenAI for code generation plus GitHub read/write access to list repositories, inspect files, generate change plans, and apply them by creating branches/commits (with optional PRs).

## Project Structure

```
backend/          # Vercel serverless functions (TypeScript)
  api/            # API endpoints
frontend/         # React + Vite frontend for GitHub Pages
.github/workflows # GitHub Actions for Pages deployment
```

## Backend (Vercel) Setup

1. Create a new Vercel project and point the **Root Directory** to `backend`.
2. Ensure "Framework Preset" is set to **Other** (functions only).
3. Add environment variables:
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY`: OpenAI API key (optional if users will provide their own via the UI).
   - `GITHUB_TOKEN`: Personal Access Token with `repo` scope (or swap to a GitHub App token later).
4. Deploy. The API endpoints will be exposed under `/api/*`.

### Local development

```bash
cd backend
npm install
npm run dev   # runs vercel dev
```

### One-shot installer (Ubuntu/Debian)

To install all prerequisites (Node.js, npm, Vercel CLI, and project dependencies) on an Ubuntu-based system, run:

```bash
./scripts/install.sh
```

## Frontend (GitHub Pages) Setup

1. In repo settings, enable GitHub Pages to serve from the `gh-pages` branch.
2. On pushes to `main`, the provided workflow builds `frontend` and publishes `frontend/dist` to `gh-pages`.
3. Configure the frontend to talk to the backend by setting a repository secret used at build-time, e.g. add to the GitHub Actions environment:
   - `VITE_API_BASE_URL=https://<your-vercel-app>.vercel.app`

### Local development

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

## API Overview

- `POST /api/list-repos` — lists repositories accessible by the token.
- `POST /api/list-files` — lists files/directories at a given path and ref.
- `POST /api/generate-change` — fetches file contents and asks OpenAI to propose JSON-formatted changes + commit message.
- `POST /api/apply-change` — creates a branch, commits blobs/trees for the proposed changes, and optionally opens a PR.
- `GET/POST/DELETE /api/auth/openai-key` — check for, store, or remove an OpenAI API key for the current browser session via an HttpOnly cookie.

## Environment Variables

Backend (Vercel):
- `OPENAI_API_KEY`
- `GITHUB_TOKEN`

Frontend (build-time):
- `VITE_API_BASE_URL` — base URL of the deployed backend (e.g., `https://your-api.vercel.app`).

## Usage Flow

1. Choose a repository and base branch.
2. Browse/select files to use as context.
3. Log in to your OpenAI account, create an API key, and save it in the app so it can call OpenAI on your behalf.
4. Enter a prompt describing the desired change and generate a proposal.
5. Review the proposed file contents and commit message.
6. Apply the changes by creating a branch/commit and optionally a pull request.

## Notes

- The frontend never stores secrets; all secret usage is in the backend via environment variables.
- The backend is written to be swapped to a GitHub App token in the future without significant changes.
- The experience is designed to mirror Codex without app-level prompt caps (no hourly, weekly, or monthly limits beyond your own
  API quotas).
